## CDK-Constructs Changelog
All changes to this project Must be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) and this project adheres to
[Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

Given a version number `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, increment the:
1) `MAJOR` version when you make incompatible API changes,
2) `MINOR` version when you add functionality in a backward-compatible manner, and
3) `PATCH` version when you make backward-compatible bug fixes.

Dates are in [ISO-8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601).

## [2.10.0]
#### Added
- `ApplicationRepository` Construct to create Elastic Container Registry.

> [!NOTE]
> Please read the ApplicationRepository [README](./src/ecr/README.md) for more details.

## [2.9.0] - 2024-05-21
#### Added
- `OpsGenie` Integration construct to create OpsGenie integrations for alarms.
- Missing methods documentation.
#### Updated
- `generateSnsActionTopicName` now takes an optional `optionalName` parameter to generate the topic name, allowing multiple topics in the same stack.
#### Fixed
- SNS Policy statements for the ChatBot construct. More restrictive policies are now added to the SNS topic.
##### Development
- `aws-cdk-lib` to version 2.140.0
- `node` to version 20.12.2. (please update your local node version)
- `ESLint` to version 7.8.0

## [2.8.0] - 2024-04-24
#### Added
- `RedisReplicationGroup` construct to create Redis Replication Group. See the [Redis CDK Construct](https://applyboard.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RPJ/pages/3132949033/Redis+CDK+Construct) for more details.
  
## [2.7.0] - 2024-03-07
#### Added
- `ABDynamoDB` Construct to create DynamoDB tables. See the [README](./src/dynamodb/README.md) for more details.
#### Updated
- `aws-cdk-lib` to version 2.131.0


## [2.6.0] - 2024-02-01
#### Added
- `ABConstructProps<T>` monad class used to handle environment-specific properties, merges and default properties.
- `ABEnvProps<T>` type to handle environment-specific properties.
- `abEnvDependentBuild<T>` helper function to build resources based on the environment.
#### Updated
- `aws-cdk-lib` to version 2.126.0
- SQS constructs to use the `ABConstructProps` monad class to handle environment-specific properties.
- `ABConstruct` class now has a `setCustomAlarms` method.
- SQS Fifo constructs now use `addValidation` to validate properties.


## [2.5.0] - 2024-01-22
#### Updated
- DLQs getDLQ() now allows to pass a custom _maxReceiveCount_ value (default=20).
- `aws-cdk-lib` to version 2.122.0
#### Added
- `EDAStandardQueueFifo` construct to create FIFO SQS queues for event-driven architecture.
- `EDAFaninQueueFifo` construct to create FIFO SQS queues for fan-in pattern.
- `EDABackgroundTasksQueueFifo` construct to create FIFO SQS queues for background tasks.
- `DLQFifo` construct to create DLQs for FIFO SQS queues.
- New methods to allow SNS subscriptions with filters.
- `ABConfigExtended` Type to extend the `ABConfig` to pass extra variables to the stack.
- `ap` as Application team domain suffix/prefix

## [2.4.2] - 2023-12-22
#### Updated
- `aws-cdk-lib` to version 2.116.1
#### Removed
- `faninPolicy` from `EDAFaninQueue` construct. This was a mistake and should not have been added. The policy is now removed.
#### Added
- `grantFaninPublishing` method. This method will add an inline policy to the ***Producers*** role to allow the ***Producers*** to publish messages to the queue.

## [2.4.1] - 2023-12-07
#### Updated
- Updated missing export from `index.ts` for `EDAFaninQueue` on SQS package.

## [2.4.0] - 2023-12-03
#### Added
- `EDAFaninQueue` construct implementing the fan-in pattern for SQS queues.
- `generateAlarmId` method to generate a unique alarm id for the CloudWatch alarms within constructs.
#### Updated
- All CW alarms now have a unique id generated by the `generateAlarmId` method.

>[!WARNING]
> This version will regenerate alarms from constructs if any were build from previous versions. Your ***DIFF*** will show alarms being destroyed and recreated. This is expected behaviour. It will require multiple deployments to remove the old alarms from the stack and add new ones.

> [!NOTE]
> For all SQS queues use this version onwards.


## [2.3.0] - 2023-11-24
#### Added
- `EDABackgroundTasksQueue` construct to create SQS queues for background tasks.
#### Updated
- Code improvements and refactorings to all SQS/SSM/ServiceAccount constructs.
- `hasResourceProperties` method to set the deletion policy of the resource. The default value is `DELETE`. Check the [README](./src/sqs/README.md) for more details.
  
## [2.2.1] - 2023-11-30
#### Updated
- content domain tag is now `csr` instead of `cnt`, as the domain is now Content Search and Recommendations

## [2.2.0] - 2023-11-23
#### Added
- `ChatbotSlackChannnel` construct to create Slack channel integrations for alarms.
- `ABSnsActions` construct to create SNS actions for alarms.
#### Updated
- `ABConstruct` class now has an `addPolicyStatements` method to inject policy statements directly into the resources.

## [2.1.0] - 2023-09-26
#### Added
- ssm package with the `SSMStringParameter` construct.

## [2.0.1] - 2023-08-02
#### Updated
- aws-cdk-lib to version 2.89.0

## [2.0.0] - 2023-07-28
#### Updated
- ABTags now follows [AWS Resource Tagging Standard](https://applyboard.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PA/pages/2967404923/AWS+Resource+Tagging+Standard) _version 0.1_
- All projects from the previous version need to be updated to follow the new ABTags.

## [1.0.3] - 2023-06-28
#### Updated
- `generateOutputArnExportName` simplifies the naming convention for the exports (`output-<resourceName>-arn`).

## [1.0.2] - 2023-06-25
#### Updated
- fix minor typos 

## [1.0.1] - 2023-06-21
#### Added
- The `ABStackConfig` class to the config package. This class is used to get the variables passed by the pipeline and dynamically update `env`, `account` and `region`.
- The `ABStack` abstract class to the common package.
#### updated
- DLQ and Standart Queues had RemovalPolicy.RETAIN updated to RemovalPolicy.DESTROY (default).

## [1.0.0] - 2023-06-15
The initial release of the CDK-Constructs project.
#### Added
- First release of the CDK-Constructs project.
- Common package with the abstract `ABConstruct` class.
  - ABTags following DevOps [AWS Tagging Strategy](https://applyboard.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DEVOPS/pages/1984332354/AWS+Tagging+Strategy).
The default strategy for configurations `Abconfig` class.
  - Constants for the Environments.
- Config package with EKS Cluster configurations.
- Util package with string methods.
- Service Accounts IAM Roles naming convention and construct.
- SNS for Event-Driven Architecture naming convention and construct.
- SQS for Event-Driven Architecture naming convention and construct.
  - DLQ for SQS.
